date: "2017-05-01"
categories: 
  - tools
title: maven生命周期
tags : 
 - maven
---

Maven有三套相互独立的生命周期,而且“相互独立”,这三套生命周期分别是：

- Clean Lifecycle 在进行真正的构建之前进行一些清理工作。
- Default Lifecycle 构建的核心部分，编译，测试，打包，部署等等。
- Site Lifecycle 生成项目报告，站点，发布站点。



## Clean Lifecycle

- pre-clean   execute processes needed prior to the actual project cleaning
- clean   remove all files generated by the previous build
- post-clean  execute processes needed to finalize the project cleaning


## Default Lifecycle

- validate    validate the project is correct and all necessary information is available.
- initialize  initialize build state, e.g. set properties or create directories.
- generate-sources    generate any source code for inclusion in compilation.
- process-sources process the source code, for example to filter any values.
- generate-resources  generate resources for inclusion in the package.
- process-resources   copy and process the resources into the destination directory, ready for packaging.
- compile compile the source code of the project.
- process-classes post-process the generated files from compilation, for example to do bytecode enhancement on Java classes.
- generate-test-sources   generate any test source code for inclusion in compilation.
- process-test-sources    process the test source code, for example to filter any values.
- generate-test-resources create resources for testing.
- process-test-resources  copy and process the resources into the test destination directory.
- test-compile    compile the test source code into the test destination directory
- process-test-classes    post-process the generated files from test compilation, for example to do bytecode enhancement on Java classes. For Maven 2.0.5 and above.
- test    run tests using a suitable unit testing framework. These tests should not require the code be packaged or deployed.
- prepare-package perform any operations necessary to prepare a package before the actual packaging. This often results in an unpacked, processed version of the package. (Maven 2.1 and above)
- package take the compiled code and package it in its distributable format, such as a JAR.
- pre-integration-test    perform actions required before integration tests are executed. This may involve things such as setting up the required environment.
- integration-test    process and deploy the package if necessary into an environment where integration tests can be run.
- post-integration-test   perform actions required after integration tests have been executed. This may including cleaning up the environment.
- verify  run any checks to verify the package is valid and meets quality criteria.
- install install the package into the local repository, for use as a dependency in other projects locally.
- deploy  done in an integration or release environment, copies the final package to the remote repository for sharing with other developers and projects.


## Site Lifecycle

- pre-site    execute processes needed prior to the actual project site generation
- site    generate the project's site documentation
- post-site   execute processes needed to finalize the site generation, and to prepare for site deployment
- site-deploy deploy the generated site documentation to the specified web server